To help you conceptualize, the different parts of the
Saba Learning Management System could be represented as the
elements of baking a cake. When you bake, you need different tools and
ingredients based on what kind of cake you are making.
The Course level is like your baking dish. Much like how a baking dish
will determine the size and shape of a cake or how long it takes to
bake, a Course determines the basic outline of the content such as
the title, description and how long it takes to deliver.
In Saba, the Course level is also the interface to which all learners
are exposed. It is also where learners go to search for a course
or to register to a class and access a Saba learner’s profile.
The Class level is like the cake itself. The batter
determines the flavour of the cake, and how many servings it makes.
In Saba, the Class level determines details like delivery type,
the language of delivery, and manage the registration (roster) list.
Just as you can have a plain or decorated cake, the Class level
is where the administrator may add more details like resources
such as learning content, tests or instructors and include
feedback evaluations. Or, if you were creating a curriculum where
multiple courses are required, it would look like a tiered cake
where each tier represents a different course.
Once your cake has been served, or your class has been
delivered, there is always a clean-up phase. For a Saba administrator,
this includes managing the roster attendance, marking a class
as delivered or cancelled and creating analytical reports
such as feedback results.
Let's get back to Saba.